RSA is a type of encryption that has been around for decades, and is still in use today with many applications.  Named after its founders' initials, RSA showcases a problem humans currently do not have an understanding of: factoring large numbers.  Forty years later, we are still stuck on the same problem, making RSA still relevant today.

Of course, our implementation won't actually be used by anyone for the purposes of encrypting messages, and all the operations will be found in the terminal window.  The primary idea is to have a conversation between Alice and Bob, the two typical characters in any cryptography problem, and they will encrypt and decrypt their messages to each other using the RSA algorithm.  Our current goal is to have a message typed in English, converted into an integer, encrypted, decrypted, then converted back into English.  Currently, we plan to leave out Eve, the character always responsible for trying to intercept messages in typical cryptography examples, but if we have time to implement her, it will be interesting to see just how hard it is to crack RSA.

There are several algorithms we have to write, all of which are heavily rooted in complex mathematics dealing with prime numbers and modulus division.  Our goal is to write pseudocode for the various algorithms, and implement them in Java afterwards.  There will be a class that holds all the methods to do these operations, serving as the core of the whole program.  Also in this section will be the Latex files that we used as a blueprint for implementation.

However, it is important to note that in actual applications, RSA requires numbers that are simply beyond the scale of what we are able to do in a Java program.  I believe the current standard is 2048 bit prime number, or one that is around 600 digits long.  That's impossible to comprehend, and using numbers of that size require programs that are specialized to do so, like Wolfram Mathematica.  Our primes will be chosen on a much smaller scale, so even though they won't technically be secure by any means, they will work for our example.

By the end of the project, we hope to have incorporated a solid program that utilizes RSA algorithms to encrypt messages that someone can type into the terminal window.  Even though this is certainly no small task, we believe we can get it done by the end of the semester with hard work.
